---
path: "/2019-11-15"
date: "2019-11-15"
title: "15 November, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

Marie Yovanovitch, former US Ambassador to Ukraine, testifies in a public hearing.

> I want to reiterate first that the allegation that I disseminated a “Do Not Prosecute” list was a fabrication. Mr. Lutsenko, the former Ukrainian Prosecutor General who made that allegation, has acknowledged that the list never existed.
>
> The Obama administration did not ask me to help the Clinton campaign or harm the Trump campaign, nor would I have taken any such steps if they had. Partisanship of this type is not compatible with the role of a career Foreign Service Officer.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/6550378/Yovanovitch-Hearing-Statement-2019-11-15-Final.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Marie Yovanovitch Opening Statement</a>
</span>

---

During the hearing, President Trump tweets about Yovanovitch:
<tweet id="1195356198347956224"></tweet>
<tweet id="1195356211937468417"></tweet>

Adam Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, asks Yovanovitch during the hearing for her response in which she states:

> "I actually think that where I've served over the years — I, and others, have demonstrably made things better, you know, for the U.S. as well as for the countries that I've served in."
>
> "It's very intimidating. ... I mean, I can't speak to what the president is trying to do, but I think the effect is trying to be intimidating"

<iframe width="100%" height="260px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/8wVjFFPh7R0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

<tweet id="1195408363309477889"></tweet>

---

<tweet id="1195415877216325642"></tweet>

---

View the full hearing:

<iframe width="100%" height="260px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/CTvEfW2eUCM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

David Holmes, a State Department aide (included by Bill Taylor's opening statement on <a href="#2019-11-13">13 November, 2019</a>), testifies in a closed door session.

On <a href="#2019-07-26">26 July, 2019</a>:
> ... I was told to join the meeting with Ambassador Sondland and Mr. Yermak as note-taker. I had not expected to join that meeting and was a flight of stairs behind Ambassador Sondland as he headed to meet with Mr. Yermak. When I reached Mr. Yermak's office, Ambassador Sondland had already gone in. I explained to Mr. Yermak's assistant that I was supposed to join the meeting as the Embassy's representative and strongly urged her to let me in, but she told me that Ambassador Sondland and Mr. Yermak had insisted that the meeting be one-on-one, with no note-taker. I then waited in the anteroom until the meeting ended, along with a member of Ambassador Sondland's staff and a member of the U.S. Embassy Kyiv staff.

Following the meeting between Ambassador Sondland and Mr. Yermak:
> During the lunch, Ambassador Sondland said that he was going to call President Trump to give him an update. Ambassador Sondland placed a call on his mobile phone, and I heard him announce himself several times, along the lines of "Gordon Sondland holding for the President." It appeared that he was being transferred through several layers of switchboards and assistants. I then noticed Ambassador Sondland's demeanor change, and understood that he had been connected to President Trump. While Ambassador Sondland's phone was not on speakerphone, I could hear the President's voice through the earpiece of the phone. The President's voice was very loud and recognizable, and Ambassador Sondland help the phone away from his ear for a period of time, presumably because of the loud volume.
>
> I heard Ambassador Sondland greet the President and explain that he was calling from Kyiv. I heard President Trump then clarify that Ambassador Sondland was in Ukraine. Ambassador Sondland replied, yes, he was in Ukraine, and went on to state that President Zelenskyy "loves your ass." I then heard President Trump ask, "So, he's gonna do the investigation?" Ambassador Sondland replied that "he's gonna do it," adding that President Zelenskyy will do "anything you ask him to." Even though I did not take notes of these statements, I have a clear recollection that these statements were made. I believe that my colleagues who were sitting at the table also knew that Ambassador Sondland was speaking with the President.
>
> ...
>
> After the call ended, Ambassador Sondland remarked that the President was in a bad mood, as Ambassador Sondland stated was often the case early in the morning. I then took the opportunity to ask Ambassador Sondland for his candid impression of the President's views on Ukraine. In particular, I asked Ambassador Sondland if it was true that the President did not "give a s--t about Ukraine." Ambassador Sondland agreed that the President did not "give a s--t about Ukraine." I asked why not, and Ambassador Sondland stated that the President only cares about "big stuff." I noted that there was "big stuff" going on in Ukraine, like a war with Russia, and Ambassador Sondland replied that he meant "big stuff" that benefits the President, like the "Biden investigation" that Mr. Giuliani was pushing. The conversation then moved on to other topics.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/6550845/2140-001.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">David Holmes' opening statement</a>
</span>
