---
path: "/2019-10-29"
date: "2019-10-29"
title: "29 October, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman, the top Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, testifies before Congress. He is the first person to be testified who listened in on the [25 July, 2019](#2019-07-25) call between President Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. 

> I want the Committees to know I am not the whistleblower who brought this issue to the CIA and the Committees' attention. I do not know who the whistleblower is and would not feel comfortable to speculate as to the identity of the whistleblower.

Regarding the [10 July, 2019](#2019-07-10) meeting between US and Ukrainian officials:
> The meeting proceeded well until the Ukrainians broached the subject of a meeting between the two presidents. The Ukrainians saw this meeting as critically important in order to solidify the support of their most important international partner. Amb. Sondland started to speak about Ukraine delivering specific investigations in order to secure the meeting with the President, at which time Ambassador Bolton cut the meeting short.
>
> Following this meeting, there was a scheduled debriefing during which Amb. Sondland emphasized the importance that Ukraine deliver the investigations into the 2016 election, the Bidens, and Burisma. to Amb. Sondland that his statements were inappropriate, that the request to investigate Biden and his son had nothing to do with national security, and that such investigations were not something the NSC was going to get involved in or push. Dr. Hill then entered the room and asserted to Amb. Sondland that his statements were inappropriate.
>
> Following the debriefing meeting, reported my concerns to the's lead counsel. Dr.Hill also reported the incident to the NSC's lead counsel.

Regarding the [25 July, 2019](#2019-07-25) call:
> I was concerned by the call. I did not think it was proper to demand that a foreign government investigate a U.S. citizen,and I was worried about the implications for the U.S. government's support of Ukraine. … Following the call, I again reported my concerns to NSC's lead counsel.

<span class="sources">

Source(s): [Vindman's Opening Statement](https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/5197-read-vindman-s-opening-stateme/451770f94b62c504f723/optimized/full.pdf), [The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/28/us/politics/Alexander-Vindman-trump-impeachment.html)

</span>

---

The House of Representatives presents a Resolution to continue the impeachment inquiry, outlining how public hearings and the release of testimonies would happen.

<span class="sources">

Source(s): [The House Resolution](https://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20191028/BILLS-116-HRes660.pdf)

</span>