---
path: "/2019-11-06"
date: "2019-11-06"
title: "06 November, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence releases the transcript from the deposition of William Taylor, US Envoy to Ukraine.

> Q: And when you say that, this was the first time I heard that the security assistance—not just the White House meeting—was conditioned on the investigation, when you talk about conditioned, did you mean that if they didn’t do this, the investigations, they weren’t going to get that, the meeting and the military assistance?
>
> A: That was my clear understanding, security assistance money would not come until the President [of Ukraine] committed to pursue the investigation.
>
> Q: So if they don’t do this, they are not going to get that was your understanding?
>
> A: Yes, sir.
>
> Q: Are you aware that quid pro quo literally means this for that?
>
> A: I am.

> Q: Or what had to be effectuated with Mr. Giuliani?
> 
> A: Here’s what I understood from Ambassador Volker and Ambassador Sondland. In order to get President Zelensky and President Trump in a meeting in the Oval Office, they took from that May 23rd meeting that they needed to work with Rudy Giuliani, so—and so they did

> Yes. I think it was becoming clear to the Ukrainians that, in order to get this meeting that they wanted, they would have to commit to pursuing these investigations. And Mr. Danyliuk, at least, understood—and I’m sure that he briefed President Zelensky, I’m sure they had this conversation—believed that opening those investigations, in particular on Burisma, would have involved Ukraine in the 2020 election campaign. He did not want to do that.

> According to Mr. Morrison, President Trump told Ambassador Sondland that he was not asking for a quid pro quo. But President Trump did insist that President Zelensky go to a microphone and say he is opening investigations of Biden and 2016 election interference, and that President Zelensky should want to do this himself. Mr. Morrison said that he told Ambassador Bolton and the NSC lawyers of this phone call between President Trump and Ambassador Sondland.

> The following day, on September 8th, Ambassador Sondland and I spoke on the phone. He said he had talked to President Trump, as I had suggested a week earlier, but that President Trump was adamant that President Zelensky himself had to clear things up and do it in public. President Trump said it was not a quid pro quo.
>
> Ambassador Sondland said that he had talked to President Zelensky and Mr. Yermak and told them that, although this was not a quid pro quo, if President Zelensky did not clear things up in public, we would be at a stalemate. I understood a stalemate to mean that Ukraine would not receive the much-needed military assistance. Ambassador Sondland said that this conversation concluded with President Zelensky agreeing to make a public statement in an interview with CNN.

<span class="sources">

Source(s): [William Taylor's Testimony](https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IG/IG00/CPRT-116-IG00-D008.pdf)

</span>

---

The House announces that public hearings with William Taylor, George Kent, and Marie Yovanovitch will start on [Wednesday, 13 November, 2019](#2019-11-13) and [Friday, 15 November, 2019](#2019-11-15).

<span class="sources">

Source(s): [House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Press Release](https://intelligence.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=792)

</span>
