---
path: "/2019-11-08"
date: "2019-11-08"
title: "08 November, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence releases the transcript from the deposition of Alexander Vindman, Director of European Affairs, National Security Council.

> "I just expressed my concerns. And the Ukrainians would have been in there for part of it, but, again, as that—as the discord between the National Security Council and Ambassador Sondland unfolded, I think they were asked to leave relatively quickly. So they heard—they probably heard some of it, but I’m not sure how much of it they heard."

> Q: All right. So you did not think it was proper to demand that a foreign government investigate a U.S. citizen. You used the word “demand,” it was not proper to demand. Where in the transcript do you believe that the President made a demand to investigate a U.S. citizen?
>
> A: So, Congressman, the power disparity between the President of the United States and the President of Ukraine is vast, and, you know, in the President asking for something, it became—there was—in return for a White House meeting, because that’s what this was about. This was about getting a White House meeting. It was a demand for him to fulfill his—fulfill this particular prerequisite in order to get the meeting.

> A: Yeah. So page four, bottom of the first paragraph, let’s see, okay, so that ellipses where it ends with “it,” there was a comment about there are recordings from the President. He said that there are recordings of these misdeeds.
>
> Q: Okay. And that ellipses substitutes for there are recordings?
>
> A: Correct.
>
> Q: To your recollection?
>
> A: Yes. This is what’s in my notes also.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IG/IG00/CPRT-116-IG00-D010.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Alexander Vindman Testimony</a>
</span>

---

The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence releases the transcript from the deposition of Fiona Hill, Senior Director of Europe and Russia, National Security Council.

> Q: Now why did the removal of Ambassador Yovanovitch mark a turning point for you?
>
> A: Because there was no basis for her removal. The accusations against her had no merit whatsoever. This was a mishmash of conspiracy theories that, again, I’ve told you, I believe firmly to be baseless, an idea of an association between her and George Soros. I had had accusations similar to this being made against me as well. My entire first year of my tenure at the National Security Council was filled with hateful calls, conspiracy theories, which has started again, frankly, as it’s been announced that I’ve been giving this deposition, accusing me of being a Soros mole in the White House, of colluding with all kinds of enemies of the President, and, you know, of various improprieties. And it seems to be extraordinarily easy, as Ambassador Yovanovitch pointed out in her opening testimony, for people to make baseless claims about people and then to seek their dismissal.
>
> ...
>
> And the most obvious explanation at that point, I have [sic] to be said, seemed to be business dealings of individuals who wanted to improve the investment positions inside of Ukraine itself, and also to deflect to where—on the findings of not just the Mueller report on Russian interference but what’s also been confirmed by your own Senate report, and what I know myself to be true as a former intelligence analyst and somebody who has been working on Russia for more than 30 years. So the fact that Ambassador Yovanovitch was removed as a result of this was, I have to say, pretty dispiriting.
>
> Q: Who did you understand was responsible for her removal?
>
> A: I understood this to be the result of the campaign that Mr. Giuliani had set in motion in conjunction with people who were writing articles and, you know, publications that I would have expected better of, and also, you know, just the constant drumbeat of these accusations that he was making on the television. And as a result of that, he had created an atmosphere in which she was under great suspicion, and it was obvious that she would lose the confidence of senior people because these accusations seem to stick to people even when they’re proved not to be true.

> “I went back to talk to Ambassador Bolton. And Ambassador Bolton asked me to go over and report this to our NSC counsel, to John Eisenberg. And he told me, and this is a direct quote from Ambassador Bolton: You go and tell Eisenberg that I am not part of whatever drug deal Sondland and Mulvaney are cooking up on this, and you go and tell him what you’ve heard and what I’ve said. So I went over to talk to John Eisenberg about this. ... I told him exactly, you know, what had transpired and that Ambassador Sondland had basically indicated that there was agreement with the chief of staff that they would have a White House meeting or, you know, a Presidential meeting if the Ukrainians started up these investigations again. And the main thing that I was personally concerned about, as I said to John, was that he did this in front of the Ukrainians.”



<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IG/IG00/CPRT-116-IG00-D011.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Fiona Hill Testimony</a>
</span>
