---
path: "/2019-11-18"
date: "2019-11-18"
title: "18 November, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

<tweet id="1196425921802178560"></tweet>

<tweet id="1196425928768929792"></tweet>

---

The House of Representatives releases the transcript of testimony for David Hale, the Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs.

> A: Well it just became more and more obvious that this was an unusual set of things that were happening and that the mayor was involved. And as I said, by the April 20—what was it—the April 25th meeting, it was self-evident that the Secretary—that the President had lost confidence in the Ambassador.
>
> Now—so I didn’t—I did say I initially couldn’t credit that. It just—over time, it became much more confusing to me what was happening, so I suspended—in fact, I can use the word, I was more prepared to suspend my disbelief than I was when I first was confronted with this information.

> Q: And did you ever understand any rationale or reason why your recommendation of a full statement of support of Ambassador Yovanovitch was not acted upon?
>
> A: Well, the impression we had was that it would only fuel further negative reaction. And our plan at that point was to try to contain this and wait it out.
>
> Q: How would it fuel further negative reaction?
>
> A: That a statement of endorsement for the Ambassador might lead these various individuals, whoever they were who were conveying information that was derogatory about the Ambassador, to counter it, and so it would just further fuel the story and there would be more back and forth. So I think the judgment was that it would be better for everyone, including the Ambassador, to try to just move past this.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IG/IG00/CPRT-116-IG00-D018-U1.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">David Hale's Testimony</a>
</span>

---

The House of Representatives releases the transcript of testimony for David Homes, Foreign Service Officer.

> Q: Okay. Based on those interactions with the Ukrainians, was it your understanding that they believe that Rudy Giuliani spoke for the President of the United States?
>
> A: I believe they were aware that he’s the President’s personal attorney. And I believe that they perceived him in that role to be someone who is important in— an important conduit to the President.


<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://intelligence.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Holmes_FINAL_VERSION_REDACTED.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">David Holmes' Testimony</a>
</span>