---
path: "/2019-11-13"
date: "2019-11-13"
title: "13 November, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

Bill Taylor, a top US Diplomat in Ukraine, and George Kent, deputy assistant secretary in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, testify in a public hearing.

In Taylor's opening statement, he adds new information stating that a member of his staff discussed with Gordon Sondland on how President Trump cared more about the investigations of the Biden Family.

> Following that meeting, in the presence of my staff at a restaurant, Ambassador Sondland called President Trump and told him of his meetings in Kyiv. The member of my staff could hear President Trump on the phone, asking Ambassador Sondland about “the investigations.” Ambassador Sondland told President Trump that the Ukrainians were ready to move forward.
>
> Following the call with President Trump, the member of my staff asked Ambassador Sondland what President Trump thought about Ukraine. Ambassador Sondland responded that President Trump cares more about the investigations of Biden, which Giuliani was pressing for.

<span class="sources">

Source(s): [Bill Taylor's Opening Statement](https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/6450-taylor-opening-statement/34a43fceb04a5db53d7e/optimized/full.pdf)

</span>

---

In Kent's opening statement, he states that Rudy Giuliani, President Trump's personal lawyer, the Giuliani's efforts to "gin up politically-motivated investigations" were starting to affect U.S./Ukraine engagement.

> In mid-August, it became clear to me that Giuliani’s efforts to gin up politically- motivated investigations were now infecting U.S. engagement with Ukraine, leveraging President Zelenskyy’s desire for a White House meeting.

<span class="sources">

Source(s): [George Kent's Opening Statement](https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/6449-george-kent-impeachment-statement/3f5c2f54ca6ff64f582e/optimized/full.pdf)

</span>

---

View the full testimony:

<youtube id="cdXAhuHhqUY"></youtube>
