---
path: /2019-11-21
date: '2019-11-21'
title: '21 November, 2019'
---
Dr. Fiona Hill, former White House Top Russian Advisor, and David Holmes, a State Department Official at the U.S. Embassy in Ukraine, tesitify in a public hearing.

From Hill's opening statement:

> Based on questions and statements I have heard, some of you on this committee appear to believe that Russia and its security services did not conduct a campaign against our country—and that perhaps, somehow, for some reason, Ukraine did. This is a fictional narrative that has been perpetrated and propagated by the Russian security services themselves.
>
> ...
>
> ...In the course of this investigation, I would ask that you please not promote politically driven falsehoods that so clearly advance Russian interests.

From Holmes' opening statement:

> Beginning in March 2019, the situation at the Embassy and in Ukraine changed dramatically. Specifically, the three priorities of security, economy, and justice, and our support for Ukrainian democratic resistance to Russian aggression, became overshadowed by a political agenda being promoted by former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and a cadre of officials operating with a direct channel to the White House.

Hill when asked about questioning Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman, the top Ukraine expert on the National Security Council.

> Hill: "I did not feel he had the political antennae to deal with something that was straying into domestic politics. Not everyone is suited for that. That does not mean in any way I was questioning his overall judgment. Nor was I questioning his substantive expertise. This was a very specific issue because by June, we saw things were diverging. And you needed completely different sensitivities. ... We were concerned about how he would manage what was becoming a highly charged and partisan issue, which it had not been before."

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/6556175/2019-11-21-Fiona-Hill-Opening-Statement-FINAL-3.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Fiona Hill's Opening Statement</a>, <a href="https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/6556234/Statement-of-David-a-Holmes.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">David Holmes' Opening Statement</a>
</span>

---

<tweet id="1197521967777222656"></tweet>

