---
path: "/2019-07-25"
date: "2019-07-25"
title: "25 July, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

Prior to the call between President Trump and Ukrainian President Zelenskiy, Kurt Volker, US Ambassador to Ukraine, sends and SMS to Andrey Yermak, a top aide to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky advising him about the call.

> [7/25/19, 8:36:45 AM] Kurt Volker: Good lunch - thanks. Heard from White House - assuming President Z convinces trump he will investigate / "get to the bottom of what happened" in 2016, we will nail down date for visit to Washington. Good luck! See you tomorrow- kurt

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/6452104/Chairmen-Letter-on-State-Departmnent-Texts-10-03.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Congressional Letter releasing Text Messages</a>
</span>

---

President Trump and Ukrainian President Zelenskiy speak on the phone. A memorandum of this call is later released on <a href="#2019-09-25">25 September, 2019</a>.

A footnote states that:
> "A Memorandum of a Telephone Conversation (TELCON) is not a verbatim transcript of a discussion."

From the call:

> Zelensky: "...We are ready to continue to cooperate for the next steps specifically we are almost ready to buy more Javelins from the United States for defense purposes."
>
> Trump: "I would like you to do us a favor though..."

> Trump: "Rudy very much knows what's happening and he is a very capable guy. If you could speak to him that would be great."

In regards to former US Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch, who was removed from her position on <a href="#2019-05-06">06 May, 2019</a>.
> Trump: "The former ambassador from the United States, the woman, was bad news and the people she was dealing with in the Ukraine were bad news so I just want to let you know that"

> Trump: "The other thing, There's a lot of talk about Biden's son, that Biden stopped the prosecution and a lot of people want to find out about that so whatever you can do with the Attorney General would be great. Biden went around bragging that he stopped the prosecution so if you can look into it... It sounds horrible to me."

> Trump: "I will. have Mr. Giuliani give you a call and I am also going to have Attorney General Barr call and we will get to the bottom of it."

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2019/09/Unclassified09.2019.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The Memorandum</a>
</span>

---

Following to the call between President Trump and Ukrainian President Zelenskiy, Kurt Volker, US Ambassador to Ukraine, received an SMS to Andrey Yermak, a top aide to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky confirming he will be meeting with Rudy Giuliani, President Trump's personal lawyer, while they both are in Madrid, Spain.

> [7/25/19, 10:15:06 AM] Andrey Yermak: Phone call went well. President Trump proposed to choose any convenient dates. President Zelenskiy chose 20,21,22 September for the White House Visit. Thank you again for your help! Please remind Mr. Mayor to share the Madrid's dates

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/6452104/Chairmen-Letter-on-State-Departmnent-Texts-10-03.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Congressional Letter releasing Text Messages</a>
</span
