---
path: "/2019-10-17"
date: "2019-10-17"
title: "17 October, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

Gordon Sondland, US Ambassador to the European Union, testifies before Congress.

From his opening statement:

> "I am **NOT** here to push an agenda. I am here to tell the truth."

> "We were also disappointed by the president’s direction that we involve Mr. Giuliani. Our view was that the men and women of the State Department, not the president’s personal lawyer, should take responsibility for all aspects of U.S. foreign policy toward Ukraine."

> "Please know that I would not have recommended that Mr. Giuliani or any private citizen be involved in these foreign policy matters. However, given the president’s explicit direction, as well as the importance we attached to arranging a White House meeting between Presidents Trump and Zelensky, we agreed to do as President Trump directed."

> "I did not understand, until much later, that Mr. Giuliani’s agenda might have also included an effort to prompt the Ukrainians to investigate Vice President Biden or his son or to involve Ukrainians, directly or indirectly, in the president’s 2020 re-election campaign."

> "Let me state clearly: Inviting a foreign government to undertake investigations for the purpose of influencing an upcoming U.S.election would be wrong. Withholding foreign aid in order to pressure a foreign government to take such steps would be wrong. I did not and would not ever participate in such undertakings. In my opinion, security aid to Ukraine was in our vital national interest and should not have been delayed for any reason."

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/1909-opening-statement-ambassador-s/9bc1eb51889c0784bf20/optimized/full.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Gordon Sondland's Opening Statement</a> 
</span>

---

Mick Mulvaney, acting White House Chief of Staff, states that the $392,000,000 in military aid originally withheld on <a href="#2019-07-18">18 July, 2019</a>, was withheld partially to pressure Ukraine to start investigations regarding the 2016 "corruption related to the DNC server."

> Reporter: "So the demand for an investigation into the Democrats was part of the reason that he ordered to withhold funding to Ukraine?"
>
> Mulvaney: "The look back to what happened in 2016 certainly was part of the thing that he was worried about in corruption with that nation. And that is absolutely appropriate."
>
> Reporter: "Withholding the funding?"
>
> Mulvaney: "Yeah. Which ultimately then flowed..."

Following this, the reporter clarifies again.

> Reporter: "But to be clear, what you just described is a quid pro quo. It is funding will not flow unless the investigation into into the Democratic server happened as well."
>
> Mulvaney: "We do that all the time with foreign policy. We were holding up money at the same time for what was it? The Northern triangle countries. We were holding up aid at the Northern triangle countries so that they would change their policies on immigration."


<iframe width="100%" height="260px" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/AZ4CpvXTzT0?start=1126" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

Mick Mulvaney, acting White House Chief of Staff, releases a statement contradicting his comments he made during the press conference, earlier today.

> "There was never any condition on the flow of the aid related to the matter of the DNC server"

<tweet id="1184951348757970946"></tweet>