---
path: "/2019-07-10"
date: "2019-07-10"
title: "10 July, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

John Bolton, National Security Advisor, has a heated exchange with Gordon Sondland, US Ambassador to the European Union, over Sondland and Rudy Giuliani, President Trump's personal lawyer, pressing Ukraine to "investigate Democrats." 

Fiona Hill, Senior Director of Russian and Eurasian Affairs, is instructed by John Bolton to notify the chief lawyer for the National Security Council that Rudy Giuliani and Mick Mulvaney, acting White House Chief of Staff, were working on a rogue operation.

Fiona Hill later testifies on <a href="#2019-10-14">14 October, 2019</a>.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/14/us/politics/bolton-giuliani-fiona-hill-testimony.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The New York Times</a>
</span>

---

Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Vindman, the top Ukraine expert on the National Security Council, also attended the meeting. From his testimony on <a href="#2019-10-29">29 October, 2019</a>, he corroborates the claim that Gordon Sondland, US Ambassador to the European Union, pressed the Ukrainian officials to investigate the Biden family in order to meet with President Trump.

> The meeting proceeded well until the Ukrainians broached the subject of a meeting between the two presidents. The Ukrainians saw this meeting as critically important in order to solidify the support of their most important international partner. Amb. Sondland started to speak about Ukraine delivering specific investigations in order to secure the meeting with the President, at which time Ambassador Bolton cut the meeting short.
>
> Following this meeting, there was a scheduled debriefing during which Amb. Sondland emphasized the importance that Ukraine deliver the investigations into the 2016 election, the Bidens, and Burisma. to Amb. Sondland that his statements were inappropriate, that the request to investigate Biden and his son had nothing to do with national security, and that such investigations were not something the NSC was going to get involved in or push. Dr. Hill then entered the room and asserted to Amb. Sondland that his statements were inappropriate.
>
> Following the debriefing meeting, reported my concerns to the's lead counsel. Dr.Hill also reported the incident to the NSC's lead counsel.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/5197-read-vindman-s-opening-stateme/451770f94b62c504f723/optimized/full.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Vindman's Opening Statement</a>
</sources>