---
path: "/2019-09-26"
date: "2019-09-26"
title: "26 September, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

<tweet id="1177182149050609664"></tweet>

---

The whistleblower complaint is released.

> "In the course of my official duties, I have received information from multiple U.S. Government officials that the President of the United States is using the power of his office to solicit interference from a foreign country in the 2020 U.S. election. This interference includes, among other things, pressuring a foreign country to investigate one of the President's main domestic political rivals. The President's personal lawyer, Mr. Rudolph Giuliani, is a central figure in this effort. Attorney General Barr appears to be involved as well."

  - The details regarding the call in the complaint is corroborated by the call memorandum released on <a href="#2019-09-25">25 September, 2019</a>.
  - It alleges the White House attempted to cover up the Trump-Zelensky call by storing records of this and similar calls with other foreign leaders in a system for highly-classified documents, even though these calls did not meet the criteria.
  - Details effort by Rudy Giuliani, President Trump's personal lawyer, to encourage Ukrainian authorities to pursue investigations into alleged Ukrainian interference in the 2016 US election and alleged wrongdoing by the Biden family.
  - It is stated that Attorney General William Barr is involved in some aspect.
  - US Ambassadors <a href="#2019-09-27">Kurt Volker</a> and <a href="#2019-10-08">Gordon Sondland</a> are named as providing advice to the Ukrainian leadership on how to "navigate" the demands of President Trump.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2019/09/26/us/politics/whistle-blower-complaint.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener norefferer">The Whistleblower Complaint</a>
</span>

---

Acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph Maguire testifies before the House Intelligence Committee.

> “I want to make it clear that I have upheld my responsibility to follow the law every step of the way in the matter that is before us today, I want to also state my support for the whistle-blower and the rights and the laws.”

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/joseph-maguire-intelligence.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener norefferer">The New York Times</a>
</span>