---
path: "/2019-07-31"
date: "2019-07-31"
title: "The weeks between"
subtitle: ""
---

The whistleblower anonymously reports to the CIA's general counsel, Courtney Simmons Elwood, that serious questions existed about the phone call between President Trump and Ukrainian President Zelensky.

Over the next few weeks, Courtney Simmons Elwood would disucss this matter with:
  - Deputy White House Counsel, John A. Eisenberg who was already vaguely familiar with the concerns of the call.
  - Head of the Justice Department's National Security Division, John Demers, who then went to the White House to review the transcript of the call.
  - Deputy Attorney General Jeffery A. Rosen.
  - Head of the Justice Department's Criminal Division Brian A. Benczkowski.
  - Lastly, Attorney General William P. Barr was breifed, but was not involved in the discussions of how to proceed.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/09/26/us/politics/who-is-whistleblower.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The New York Times</a>
</span>

---

Concourrently, the whitstleblower learns that Courtney Simmons Elwood has contacted the White House, and proceeds to approach a House Intelligence Committee aide with concerns about how they initially brought forth the allegations. 

Following proceedure, the House aide suggested the whistleblower find a lawyer, and file a formal whistleblower complaint.

This aide also notified Adam Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, about some of what they discussed.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/10/02/us/politics/adam-schiff-whistleblower.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The New York Times</a>
</span>