---
path: "/2019-11-16"
date: "2019-11-16"
title: "16 November, 2019"
subtitle: ""
---

Mark Sandy, an official at the Office of Management and Budget, testifies before congress in a closed door hearing.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/white-house-budget-official-with-knowledge-of-delay-in-military-aid-to-ukraine-to-testify/2019/11/15/f84b809e-07ef-11ea-924a-28d87132c7ec_story.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The Washington Post</a>
</span>

---

The House of Representatives releases the transcript from the testimony given by Tim Morrison, the former National Security Council's Russia and Europe director.

> Q "Did the President have a meeting with Ambassador Bolton, a one-on-one meeting, related to Ukraine security assistance?
>
> A "Yes."

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://intelligence.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Morrison_FINAL_VERSION.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Tim Morrison's Transcript</a>
</span>

---

The House of Representatives releases the transcript from the testimony given by Jennifer Williams, an aide to Vice President Mike Pence.

> Q: Okay. During the July 25 call, did you have any concerns about the conversation that you heard between President Trump and President Zelensky?
>
> A: I certainly noted that the mention of those specific investigations seemed unusual as compared to other discussions with foreign leadens.
>
> Q: And why were they unusual?
>
> A: I believed those references to be more political in nature and so that struck me as unusual.

> Q: Can you explain why Vice President Pence did not attend, ended up not attending?
>
> A: My understanding was on May 13th, at some time in the morning, I received a phone call from our chief of staff’s office from one of my colleagues saying that the Vice President would not be attending the inauguration.
>
> Q: And who was that colleague?
>
> A: I believe it was the chief of staff’s assistant.
>
> Q: And why wasn’t Vice President Pence going to attend? Had he received further direction from somebody at the White House?
>
> A: My understanding from my colleague—and, again, I wasn’t there for the conversation—was that the President asked the Vice President not to attend.
>
> ...
>
> Q: Were you ever give a reason for the President’s change of mind on this?
>
> A: No.

<span class="sources">
Source(s): <a href="https://intelligence.house.gov/UploadedFiles/Williams_FINAL_VERSION_with_Letter.pdf" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Jennifer Williams' Transcript</a>
</span>
